Context menu - Readme update (#13)
DevExpress-Examples/blazor-dxgrid-show-context-menu: README.md

Reviewer: That's a really good idea! It is so simple and obvious but has never crossed my mind.

The issue is that I am not 100% sure we should keep it in this example 🤔 It was filmed before we introduced related APIs out of the box. We can discuss this video with other techwriters (whether we should keep, update, or remove it). The approach used in the video is still valid for the third scenario and other components.

[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/💬_Leave_Feedback-feecdd?style=flat-square)](#does-this-example-address-your-development-requirementsobjectives)
<!-- default badges end -->

# Blazor Grid - Customize Context Menu

> This example shows how to enable, customize, and implement context menus in Blazor Grid and Toolbar components. It demonstrates the following tasks:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example customizes context menus within Blazor Grid and Toolbar components as follows:
```

> * Enable built-in context menus for DxGrid's predefined areas: header, footer, data row, group panel, group row, and group footer.

Reviewer: It is better not to use possesives.

```suggestion
* Enables built-in context menus for predefined Grid areas: header, footer, data row, group panel, group row, and group footer.
```

> * Customize context menu items for header, footer, and data rows using DxGrid APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Customizes context menu items for header, footer, and data rows using Grid APIs.
```

> * Define custom context menus for areas that do not include built-in context menus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Defines custom context menus for areas that do not include built-in context menus.
```

![Grid with Context Menu for a column](result.png)

## Implementation Details

### Enable Context Menus for All Predefined Areas

Set the [ContextMenus](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxGrid.ContextMenus) property to `All` to allow users to use built-in context menus in the following Grid areas: header, footer, data row, group panel, group row, and group footer.

```
<DxGrid @ref="Grid"
        ...
        ContextMenus="GridContextMenus.All">
</DxGrid>
```

### Customize Context Menu Items Using Grid APIs

> The `DxGrid` component includes built-in APIs used to customize context menu items. This scenario affects the following Grid areas: header, footer, and data rows.

Reviewer: We can still add what items are added in this case. As the result, the idea from the second sentence will flow more naturally.

> In the Grid's [CustomizeContextMenu](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxGrid.CustomizeContextMenu) event handler, call the helper method defined in the [GridContextMenuHelper.cs](./CS/GridWithContextMenu/Data/GridContextMenuHelper.cs#L298-L365) class to customize the built-in context menu items.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the [CustomizeContextMenu](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxGrid.CustomizeContextMenu) event handler, call the helper method defined in the [GridContextMenuHelper.cs](./CS/GridWithContextMenu/Data/GridContextMenuHelper.cs#L298-L365) class to customize built-in context menu items.
```

```
<DxGrid @ref="Grid"
        CustomizeContextMenu="Grid_CustomizeContextMenu"
        ... >
        <!-- ... -->
</DxGrid>

@code {
    IGrid Grid { get; set; }
    // ...

    void Grid_CustomizeContextMenu(GridCustomizeContextMenuEventArgs args) => GridContextMenuHelper.CustomizeContextMenu(args);
}
```

### Add Custom Context Menus

> Follow the steps below to display custom context menus for the toolbar component, Grid's edit row, and Grid's pager:

Reviewer: We can remove this sentence completely or make it more guide-like:

```suggestion
To display custom context menus for the toolbar component, Grid's edit row and pager, you must:
```

> 1. In the [GridContextMenuContainer](./CS/GridWithContextMenu/Pages/GridContextMenuContainer.razor#L4-L28) component, define the context menu components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the [GridContextMenuContainer](./CS/GridWithContextMenu/Pages/GridContextMenuContainer.razor#L4-L28) component, define context menu components.
```

> 2. In the [GridContextMenuHelper](./CS/GridWithContextMenu/Data/GridContextMenuHelper.cs#L31-L59) class, implement context menu item generation, state management, and click handlers. The Blazor [Grid API](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxGrid._methods) uses them to execute commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In the [GridContextMenuHelper](./CS/GridWithContextMenu/Data/GridContextMenuHelper.cs#L31-L59) class, implement context menu item generation, state management, and click handlers. The Blazor [Grid API](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxGrid._methods) calls these helper methods to execute commands.
```

3. Add the [oncontextmenu:preventDefault](./CS/GridWithContextMenu/Pages/Index.razor#L14) directive to disable the standard browser context menu.

> 4. In the Grid's [CustomizeElement](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxGrid.CustomizeElement) event handler, subscribe to the **contextmenu** event to display the custom context menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. In the [CustomizeElement](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxGrid.CustomizeElement) event handler, subscribe to the **contextmenu** event to display a custom context menu.
```

```
<DxGrid @ref="Grid"
        ...
        CustomizeElement="Grid_CustomizeElement"
        @oncontextmenu:preventDefault>

>         <!-- ... -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        @* ... *@
```

</DxGrid>

<GridContextMenuContainer Grid="Grid" @ref="ContextMenuContainer" />

@code {
    IGrid Grid { get; set; }
    GridContextMenuContainer ContextMenuContainer { get; set; }
    // ...

    void Grid_CustomizeElement(GridCustomizeElementEventArgs e) {
        if(GridContextMenuHelper.IsContextMenuElement(e.ElementType)) {
        	e.Attributes["oncontextmenu"] = EventCallback.Factory.Create<MouseEventArgs>(
         		this,
        		async mArgs => await ContextMenuContainer.Grid_ContextMenu(e, mArgs)
        	);
        }
    }
}
```

> ### Video

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Video
```

Author: ```suggestion
#### Video
```

[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/💬_Leave_Feedback-feecdd?style=flat-square)](#does-this-example-address-your-development-requirementsobjectives)
<!-- default badges end -->

# Blazor Grid - Customize Context Menu

> This repository displays for various DxGrid areas, customizes their items using DxGrid's built-in APIs, and defines context menus for areas that do not include built-in context menus.

Reviewer: I think it's better to format this sentence as a list. Something like [this](https://github.com/DevExpress-Examples/blazor-reporting-ai-summarize-and-translate).

![Grid with Context Menu for a column](result.png)

## Implementation Details

> ### Display Context Menus for All Built-in Areas

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Enable Context Menus for All Predefined Areas
```

> Set the [ContextMenus](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxGrid.ContextMenus) property to `All` to enable DxGrid built-in context menus for the following areas: Header, Footer, Data Row, Group Panel, Group Row, and Group Footer.

Reviewer: To avoid repeating the header:

```suggestion
Set the [ContextMenus](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxGrid.ContextMenus) property to `All` to allow users to use built-in context menus in the following Grid areas: Header, Footer, Data Row, Group Panel, Group Row, and Group Footer.
```
We should also use sentence case for Grid's "part" unless they are used as API names. Please, fix this across the document.

> File to Review: [Index.razor](./CS/GridWithContextMenu/Pages/Index.razor#L14)

Reviewer: We can replace this link with a small snippet that demonstrates how to do this.

> ### Customize Context Menu Items Using Grid's Built-in API

Reviewer: I am removing a possesive:

```suggestion
### Customize Context Menu Items Using Grid APIs
```

> DxGrid Component includes built-in APIs to customize context menu items. Follow the steps below to implement them:

Reviewer: The original phrase is ambiguous: do we implement APIs or context menu items?
I'll temporarily remove the second sentence, as I think we wouldn't need it when we rethink the text below.

```suggestion
The `DxGrid` component includes built-in APIs used to customize context menu items.
```

> 1. Add the [oncontextmenu:preventDefault](./CS/GridWithContextMenu/Pages/Index.razor#L14) to disable the standard browser context menu.

Reviewer: This step is not required at this point. This is for the next section (see notes form Alex in the support card).

> 2. In the Grid's [CustomizeContextMenu](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxGrid.CustomizeContextMenu) event handler, subscribe to the **contextmenu** event to display the custom context menu items.

Reviewer: Which custom items? Provide some details. We can also mention the helper class here.

> This scenario affects the following DxGrid areas: Header, Footer, and Data Rows.

Reviewer: We can mention this in the section intro.

Files to Review:
* [Index.razor](./CS/GridWithContextMenu/Pages/Index.razor#L64)

> * [GridContextMenuHelper.cs](./CS/GridWithContextMenu/Data/GridContextMenuHelper.cs#L298-L365)

Reviewer: Again, we can add a snippet that handles the event here.

### Add Custom Context Menus

> The [GridContextMenuContainer](./CS/GridWithContextMenu/Pages/GridContextMenuContainer.razor) component contains Context Menu components. The [GridContextMenuHelper](./CS/GridWithContextMenu/Data/GridContextMenuHelper.cs) class implements Context Menu's item generation, manages state, and includes the click handlers that use the Blazor [Grid's API](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxGrid._methods) to execute commands. Follow the steps below to display custom context menus:

Reviewer: To be honest, I think that we should turn the first two sentences into steps.

1. Add the [oncontextmenu:preventDefault](./CS/GridWithContextMenu/Pages/Index.razor#L14) to disable the standard browser context menu.
2. In the Grid's [CustomizeElement](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/DevExpress.Blazor.DxGrid.CustomizeElement) event handler, subscribe to the **contextmenu** event to display the custom Context Menu.

This scenario affects the following application areas: Toolbar Component, DxGrid's Edit Row, and DxGrid's Pager.

Files to Review:
* [Index.razor](./CS/GridWithContextMenu/Pages/Index.razor#L66)
* [GridContextMenuContainer.razor](./CS/GridWithContextMenu/Pages/GridContextMenuContainer.razor#L4-L28)

> * [GridContextMenuHelper.cs](./CS/GridWithContextMenu/Data/GridContextMenuHelper.cs#L31-59)

Reviewer: Same as above.

> <!--

Reviewer: I don't see the point of removing those links. Leave them be for those who decide not to read the entire thing :)
